OSDOCS#14993: Adding monitoring cert-manager metrics section (#95058)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/cert-manager-enable-metrics.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="cert-manager-enable-metrics_{context}"]

> = Configuring metrics scraping for cert-manager operands by using a ServiceMonitor

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Configuring metrics collection for cert-manager operands by using a ServiceMonitor
```

spec:
  endpoints:
    - honorLabels: false
      interval: 60s
      path: /metrics
      scrapeTimeout: 30s
      targetPort: 9402
  selector:
    matchExpressions:
      - key: app.kubernetes.io/name
        operator: In
        values:
          - cainjector
          - cert-manager
          - webhook
      - key: app.kubernetes.io/instance
        operator: In
        values:
          - cert-manager
      - key: app.kubernetes.io/component
        operator: In
        values:
          - cainjector
          - controller
          - webhook
----

.. Create the `ServiceMonitor` CR by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f cert-manager.yaml
----
+
After the `ServiceMonitor` CR is created, the user workload Prometheus instance begins metrics collection from the cert-manager operands. The collected metrics are labeled with `job="cert-manager"`,`job="cert-manager-cainjector"`, and `job="cert-manager-webhook"`.

.Verification

. In the {product-title} web console, navigate to *Observe* → *Targets*.

. In the *Label* filter field, enter the following label to filter the metrics targets:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ service=cert-manager
----

> . Confirm that the *Status* column shows `Up` for the `cert-manager` entry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Confirm that the *Status* column shows `Up` for the `cert-manager`, `cert-manager-webhook`, and `cert-manager-cainjector` entries.
```
